# Eykar Litepaper



A few centuries ago, millions people had to flee their home because of the explosion of their star. They traveled throughout the cosmos to the first habitable planet, Eykar. After this long journey, the first thousands of spaceships landed in  just a few month, filled with settlers eager to take over a new world.

## The game

You play the commander of one of these settler spaceships and your goal is to build the most prestigious empire. Prestige can be earned by performing actions depending on the faction you have chosen. There are 3 factions, each one has advantages and disadvantages but the more people who are part of one, the less interesting it becomes compared to the other two. Chose carefully to avoid having too many competitors. The most prestigious empire, whether it is controlled by a single player or a guild made up of thousands, will keep a significative part of the profits generated by the game.

### The factions

#### Merchants

Merchants gain prestige by trading. They establish trade routes and go in search of the most sought-after resources from other kingdoms. To succeed in this faction you will have to negotiate with the farmers, fishermen and other miners of this world.

#### Diplomats

Diplomats gain prestige by establishing unions between kingdoms. They have their place at the head of powerful guilds and implement complex strategies to bend the world to their will. To become a good diplomat you will have to know how to adapt to your interlocutor, sometimes discussing with rich merchants, and the next day with mercenary warlords.

#### Warlords 

Warlords gain prestige by destroying other empires. They can put violence in the service of the wealthy or stand on the side of good and defend the just causes. No matter how moral they are, they will spend their lives in bloody conflicts.

### The world

Eykar world is not infinite, but comes very close. The map divides the world into small polygonal territories called plots. There are more of these than there are atoms in our universe and they all have different properties. Their altitude and climate determine the interactions players can have with them. In a forest for instance, it is possible to build a lumber camp while an ocean allows to fish. The resources owned by players are represented by convoys under their control, each with different speeds and travel constraints.

### The guilds

When your colony gets big enough to be meaningful to other players, you may decide to ally rather than attacking them. Guilds allow to manage territories and resources shared by several players, preventing them from attacking each other. They also allow two interesting behaviors:
1) Diplomacy. Pactize with other Guilds so their members cannot attack you, or implement strategies to kill a common enemy.
2) Emiting tokens. A guild could emit tokens (ERC20 or similar), representing an IOU (a debt recognition) of any Eykar resource. Anyone holding a token could burn them to force any member of the Guild to send them the underlying token.

## Vision

Eykar was created to explore the possibilities of StarkNet, a layer 2 making computation scalable. The more you compute, the cheaper it is per instruction, which means that putting storage aside, you just need to get enough players to make the costs negligible. After several months, this initial goal turned into three.

#### Achieving a technical feat

- Leveraging Starknet possibilities to take advantage of cheap computation and account abstraction.

- Creating new primitives that could become new standards used by other projects of the ecosystem.

#### Making a great game

- Providing a good user experience (mobile support, few transactions to sign, etc).
- Encouraging teamwork via guilds to add a social dimension.
- Generate stories of conquests that people will want to tell, so the players would become the best promoters of the game.

#### Answering questions through experiments

- How is a currency born? We intend to introduce a resource in finite quantity: meteorite fragments. This resource will have no use, but it will be the only one that cannot be produced endlessly. We will watch what the players do with it. We want to see how a currency or store of value can emerge and build consensus in an anarchic system. 
- How will players organize themselves to optimize the exploitation of the planet. Will we witness the birth of new trustless cooperation strategies? Will these strategies  be optimal? We seek to learn about our society through this completely open and easy to study model.

## Roadmap

#### Genesis

This phase will provide the technical requirements of the game and show that it can be done.

- A world computed in browser and (cheaply) verified on chain.
- A convoys-based resources system, designed to minimize costs on StarkNet.
- Resources production logic which allows to extract and transform various resources (renewable and non renewable).
- Combat rules based on community surveys and discussions, with their cairo implementation. These rules will not be final and will require real experimentation to improve.

#### Eykar Quests

A quest system which allows participants to evolve an NFT that will give them access to the alpha of Eykar. This system should increase community engagement and promote the game thanks to social networks quests. It could also help to get feedback on the Starknet user experience on browser.

#### Alpha

A first iteration of the game deployed on Testnet. It will be based on Genesis with factions and prestige introduced. This will allow to fix eventual bugs and adjust the gameplay to be as pleasant and fair as possible for the players.

#### Beta

This version, also called season 0, will be the first one to be deployed on the mainnet, with a limited number of participants.  It will allow to test the game in real conditions with a limited stake.

#### Seasons

Season 1 will be open to the public and will last one month. The contract will be immutable and user feedback will be used to improve the next seasons. Alongside these improvements to the game, cosmetic additions and small variations to prevent players from getting bored will be developed as the seasons go on.

#### Eternity

This is Eykar's final goal. Having a decentralized game that never ends. In order to achieve this, two questions will have to be answered.

- How to keep the game interesting for old and new players at the same time?
- How to allow the game to develop without its original team?

At this point, a governance token may be considered.